# Matrix_calculator
matrix calculator which enables mutiple matrix operation (exclusively used in ELEC2530 Embedded System and Microcontroller) 
    
    Overall reflection & conclusion
    Matrix calculator is widely and frequently used throughout all kinds of engineering fields especially in electrical and electronic engineering. Matrix are vastly applied in electrical circuit analysis as when writing differential equation describing resistive-inductive-capacitive circuit, the solution inevitably involve solving linear equation set which may contain 5 to 6 unknowns when the circuit contains multiple non-resistive components. Also with purely resistive circuit, according to KCL and KVL, complex linear equation set can be written to describe circuit properties when the topology become quite complex. With a well-designed matrix calculator, all the linear equation set would be easily solved. In communication field, when data are sent by sender and received by receiver, receiver would apply a strategy called hamming code where the received bits set are multiplied by a hamming code matrix and by comparing the resultant product matrix with standard matrix table, any transmission error can be found, located and corrected. Engineers can use matrix multiplication function in matrix calculator to compute the hamming code when analyzing communication system failure. 
    This matrix calculator is equipped with both fundamental and advanced matrix-based calculation and can be applied wherever matrices are involved. As matrix are literally everywhere among EE engineering field, this matrix calculator is indeed a powerful helper to you engineering career.

  Motivations
	Matrix calculator has long been the program that I want to write and study. When studying the course Further Engineering Mathematics, we are asked to solve higher order differential equation and within this process all the calculation resulted in solving linear equation set which may contain 5 or 6 unknowns but they are simple linear equation. It occurs to me that those equation set can be write as coefficient matrix multiplied with unknown matrix equals to another coefficient matrix. And by manipulating two coefficient matrices, the unknown matrix can be obtained. This is a quite easy and apparent way to solve linear equation set and is frequently used when analyzing resistive-capacitive-inductive circuit in simplifying the process to solve relevant descriptive differential equations. Using the technique of matrix can substantially reduce our workload. 
	Technique and relevant theory
	Mathematical aspect
	The whole program solves determinant, inverse, adjoint and cofactor of one certain matrix and help user to calculate the addition, subtraction and multiplication of two matrices. The method to obtain these identities are introduced in linear algebra. What need to be focus and caution is that, for determinant of higher order matrix (greater than 3 order), the diagonal principal is no longer applicable and calculating the determinant should by expanding certain row or certain column which mathematically is adding the product of the cofactor and themselves of each element in a row or a column.
	Program aspect
	To calculating inverse or the adjoint matrix, provided that they are encapsulated in a function, relevant function must return multiple values or return an array which contain multiple values. For the former solution, pass reference can be applied as this technique can change the value of input variable which visually makes this function to have several return values. For the later one, in this case, two dimensional array are needed and to return a two dimensional array, a specialized pointer is necessitated and inside the function some memory locations are allocated to store the array which is intended to return and the memory space is decided by their data type and matrix size.
